Free Code Camp's Color Markers project is to learn how to use colors in CSS.

Things I learned:
1. Div contents will be there but will not appear on a webpage if there is no content in it. Unless, you specify it CSS to different styles.
2. There are shorthand properties (margin) where one or two values can be provided to shorthand values for all the properties (margin-top, margin-bottom, margin-right, margin-left).
3. More classes can be given to an element by just putting space on the class attribute and specifying the next class (class="markers red")
4. Two main color models: additive RGB (red, color, gree) and subtractive CMYK (cyan, magenta, yellow, black). In this project, the RGB model is used using the rgb() function. Each red, green, blue number is a number from 0 to 255.
5. Secondary colors are colors you get when combining primary colors.
6. Tertiary colors are created by combining a primary with a nearby secondary color.
7. Color wheel is a circle where similar color and hues are next to each while the color on the opposite side of the wheel is the complementary color. Two colors combined will create grey; however, two colors place next to each other will provide great contrast.
8. It is better to choose one color as the dominant color, and use its complementary color as an accent to bring attention to certain content on the page.
9. Another common way to apply color on an element is using hexadecimal or hex values. They start with a # sign followed by six characters ranging from 0-9 and A-F. They are based on 16 values. Ex: #00FF00 = 00 (0% red) FF (100% green) 00 (0% blue).
10. The HSL (hue, saturation, lightness) model is another way to represent colors. the hsl() function accepts 3 values that range from 0-360 for hue, and 0-100 for saturation and lightness. Be sure to add the % symbol for the last two values to use the function correctly.
11. Color transition, or gradient, can be applied to an element. It is when a color transitions to another color. The linear-gradient() function actually creates an image element which is combined with background property which can accept an image as a value. Basic syntax: linear-gradient(gradientDirection, color1, color2,...) = linear-gradient(90deg, rgb(255, 0, 0), rgb(0, 255, 0)). If no direction is specified, it usually defaults the arrangement from top to bottom = 180deg.
12. Color stops allow for fine-tuning where the colors are placed along the gradient line. Percentages or px can be use to change the transitions behavior -- linear-gradient(90deg, red 90%, black). These will be calculated and divided equally if they are not specified.
13. Opacity describes how opaque, or non transparent, something is. This can be specified in the element using the opacity property. It has a value between 0 and 1. 1.0 = 100% opacity which is the default value. Alpha can also be used to set the opacity of an element. The rgba() function is the same as the rgb() function; however, the alpha value is included in the function. Ex: rgba(redValue, greenValue, blueValue, alphaValue).
14. Reminder: div elements has a default display property of being a block which makes them stack on top of each other. Ex: all the marker divs are stacked on top of each other. Setting the div display property as inline-block will put them on the same line.
15. All HTML element have borders, but their default is usually none. They can be added one at a time: border-left-width. They also have different styles to choose from using the border-left-style property. If no color is set, then black is used as default. However, for better readability, always specify the border color. With all these properties for border, there is a way to code this all shorthand (border-left: width style color).
16. Shadows can be added on elements to make it look better. The box-shadow property is used for this feature (box-shadow: offsetX offsetY blurRadius spreadRadius color). Offsets accepts number values in px and other css units. X will move shadow to the right and left while Y will move down and up. Negative values moves them on left and up directions. 0 value is the default which means no change. The blurRadius value is optional and its default is 0. The spreadRadius property can be used to determine the height and width of the shadow and it depends on the height and width of the element it is applied to.